EIT-2498: Docs - Cash App Pay (#244)
afterpay/sdk-ios: docs/src/getting-started/cash-app-pay.md

---
layout: default
title: Cash App Pay
parent: Getting Started
nav_order: 4
---

# Cash App Pay
{: .d-inline-block .no_toc }
NEW (v5.3.0)
{: .label .label-green }

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

{: .alert }
> Cash App Pay is currently available in the following region(s): US

> Cash App Pay support can be added using your Afterpay merchant account. This requires a token to be generated by a server-to-server call to the Afterpay API Create Checkout endpoint with a parameter of `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App PayKit SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add Cash App Pay support using your Afterpay merchant account. To do this, you must generate a token by sending a server-to-server call to the Afterpay API Create Checkout endpoint<!---pls add the link here--> with a parameter of `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App PayKit SDK. <!--same comment as for the android docs, can we change the first line to specify the support?--->
```

Author: addressed in [801a425](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-ios/pull/244/commits/801a425bf07098f6bdb4618fde0b6b967e0f00a0)

Reviewer: Please change the first line to "With our latest enhancements, you can now support taking Cash App Pay payments using your Afterpay merchant account."

Reviewer: @ScottAntonacAP in the last line "PayKit" must have a space between the words. Pay Kit

{: .info }

> > When creating a checkout token, both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl` must be set. Failing to do so will cause undefined behavior. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more by checking the [api reference][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> When creating a checkout token, you must set both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl`. If they are not set, an error will be returned from the server and the SDK will ouput a malformed JSON error. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more details at [Redirect Method][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'} in the Standard Checkout API.
```

> > When creating a checkout token, both `redirectConfirmUrl` and `redirectCancelUrl` must be set. Failing to do so will cause undefined behavior. The SDK’s example merchant server sets the parameters [here][example-server-props]{:target='_blank'}. See more by checking the [api reference][api-reference-props]{:target='_blank'}.

Reviewer: ![Screenshot 2023-03-03 at 9 29 11 AM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37309039/222787877-ec144963-599f-4ac3-a38d-870f6130d016.png)
The MD did not render correctly

Author: Addressed in [1dfda4b](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-ios/pull/244/commits/1dfda4ba4f5b772d029dc08ef1086237a78cccfb)

> ## Step 1: Install the Cash App PayKit SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Install the Cash App Pay Kit SDK
```

### Installation (Option One): SPM

> You can install Pay Kit via SPM. Create a new Xcode project and navigate to `File > Swift Packages > Add Package Dependency`. Enter the url `https://github.com/cashapp/cash-app-pay-ios-sdk` and tap **Next**. Choose the `main` branch, and on the next screen, check off the packages as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Pay Kit via SPM. Create a new Xcode project and navigate to `File > Swift Packages > Add Package Dependency`. Enter the URL `https://github.com/cashapp/cash-app-pay-ios-sdk` and tap **Next**. Choose the `main` branch, and on the next screen, download the required packages.
```

### Installation (Option Two): Cocoapods

> Add Cocoapods to your to your project. Open the `Podfile` and add `pod 'CashAppPayKit'` and/or `pod 'CashAppPayKitUI'` and save your changes. Run `pod update` and Pay Kit will now be included through Cocoapods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add Cocoapods to your project. Open the `Podfile` and add `pod 'CashAppPayKit'` and/or `pod 'CashAppPayKitUI'` and save your changes. Run `pod update` and Pay Kit will now be included through Cocoapods
```

> Add Cocoapods to your to your project. Open the `Podfile` and add `pod 'CashAppPayKit'` and/or `pod 'CashAppPayKitUI'` and save your changes. Run `pod update` and Pay Kit will now be included through Cocoapods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add Cocoapods to your to your project. Open the `Podfile` and add `pod 'CashAppPayKit'` and/or `pod 'CashAppPayKitUI'` and save your changes. Run `pod update` and Pay Kit will now be included through Cocoapods.
```

Author: Updated in [70c8e8a](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-ios/pull/244/commits/70c8e8a7523692971360b6115bfdb41fff917905)

## Step 2: Implement the Pay Kit Observer Protocol

> To receive updates from Pay Kit, you’ll need to implement the Pay Kit Observer protocol. Your checkout view controller can conform to this protocol, or you can create a dedicated observer class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive updates from Pay Kit, you’ll need to implement the `PayKitObserver` protocol. Your checkout view controller can conform to this protocol, or you can create a dedicated observer class.
```

Author: This is a class name and should be left as is

The PayKitObserver protocol contains only one method:

``` swift
func stateDidChange(to state: CashAppPaySDKState) {
	// handle state changes
}
```

### States

Your implementation should switch on the `state` parameter and handle the appropriate state changes. Some of these possible states are for information only, but most drive the logic of your integration. The most critical states to handle are listed in the table below:

| State | Description |
|:------|:------------|

> | `ReadyToAuthorize` | Show a Cash App Pay button in your UI and call `authorizeCustomerRequest()` when it is tapped |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ReadyToAuthorize` | Show a Cash App Pay button in your UI and call `authorizeCustomerRequest()` when it is tapped. |
```

> | `Approved` | Grants are ready for your backend to use to create a payment |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Approved` | Grants are ready for your backend to use to create a payment. |
```

> | `Declined` | Customer has declined the Cash App Pay authorization and must start the flow over or choose a new payment method |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Declined` | Customer has declined the Cash App Pay authorization and must start the flow over or choose a new payment method. |
```

### Error States

| State | Description |
|:------|:------------|

> | `.integrationError` | A fixable bug in your integration |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.integrationError` | A fixable bug in your integration. |
```

> | `.apiError` | A degradation of Cash App Pay server APIs. Your app should temporarily hide Cash App Pay functionality |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.apiError` | A degradation of Cash App Pay server APIs. Your app should temporarily hide Cash App Pay functionality. |
```

> | `.unexpectedError` | A bug outside the normal flow. Report this bug (and what caused it) to Cash App Developer Support |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `.unexpectedError` | A bug outside the normal flow. Report this bug (and what caused it) to Cash App Developer Support. |
```

{: .info }

> > You must update your UI in response to these state changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You must update your UI in response to these state changes.
```

## Step 3: Implement URL handling

> To use PayKit iOS, Cash App must be able to call a URL that will redirect back to your app. The simplest way to accomplish this is via [Custom URL Schemes][custom-url-schemes], but if your app supports [Universal Links][universal-links] you may use those URLs as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Pay Kit iOS, Cash App must be able to call a URL that will redirect back to your app. The simplest way to accomplish this is via [Custom URL Schemes][custom-url-schemes], but if your app supports [Universal Links][universal-links] you may use those URLs as well.
```

> Choose a unique scheme for your application and register it in Xcode from the Info tab of your application’s Target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose a unique scheme for your application and register it in Xcode from the **Info** tab of your application’s Target.
```

You’ll pass a URL that uses this scheme (or a Universal Link your app handles) into the `createCustomerRequest()` method that starts the authorization process.

> When your app is called back by Cash App, simply post the `PayKit.RedirectNotification` from your AppDelegate or SceneDelegate, and the SDK will handle the rest:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your app is called back by Cash App, simply post the `PayKit.RedirectNotification` from your `AppDelegate` or `SceneDelegate`, and the SDK will handle the rest:
```

``` swift
import UIKit
import PayKit

class SceneDelegate: UIResponder, UIWindowSceneDelegate {
  func scene(_ scene: UIScene, openURLContexts URLContexts: Set<UIOpenURLContext>) {
    if let url = URLContexts.first?.url {
      NotificationCenter.default.post(
        name: PayKit.RedirectNotification,
        object: nil,
        userInfo: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey.url : url]
      )
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Step 4: Instantiate PayKit iOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Instantiate Pay Kit iOS
```

When you’re ready to authorize a payment using Cash App Pay,

> 1. Instantiate the SDK with the Afterpay PayKit Client ID via `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Instantiate the SDK with the Afterpay Pay Kit Client ID via `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`
```

> 2. The SDK defaults to point to the production endpoint; for development, set the endpoint to `.sandbox`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The SDK defaults to point to the production endpoint; for development, set the endpoint to `.sandbox`.
```

> 3. Add your observer to the PayKit SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Add your observer to the Pay Kit SDK.
```

{: .note }

> > Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][afterpay-configuration] before attempting to access `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`

Reviewer: link to instructions is not working in the html, please verify that it works when this is published on dev portal.

> > Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][afterpay-configuration] before attempting to access `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][afterpay-configuration] before attempting to access `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`.
```

For example, from your checkout view controller that implements the `PayKitObserver` protocol, you might instantiate the SDK to be:

``` swift
private let sandboxClientID = Afterpay.cashAppClientId
private lazy var sdk: PayKit = {
    let sdk = PayKit(clientID: sandboxClientID, endpoint: .sandbox)
    sdk.addObserver(self)
    return sdk
}()
```
## Step 5: Create a Customer Request

> You can create a customer request as soon as you know the amount you’d like to charge or if you'd like to create an on-file payment request. You’re encouraged to create this request as soon as your checkout view controller loads, so that your Customer can authorize the request without delay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a customer request as soon as you know the amount you’d like to charge or if you'd like to create an on-file payment request. You must create this request as soon as your checkout view controller loads, so that your customer can authorize the request without delay.
```

### Step 5A: Sign the Order Token

> After retrieving the token from your server-to-server call, the order needs to be signed, so as to retrieve the JWT and associated data. This might look something like the below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After retrieving the token from your server-to-server call, the order must be signed, so that you can retrieve the JWT and associated data. This might look like the following example:
```

``` swift
let token = retrieveTokenFromServerToServerCall()
Afterpay.signCashAppOrderToken(token) { result in
  switch result {
  case .success(let cashData):
    // TODO: use `cashData` to create customer request (step 5B)
  case .failed(let reason):

>     // TODO: handle failed signing

Reviewer 2: Can we advise developers how to handle failed signing here?

Author: updated in [a581ca7](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-ios/pull/244/commits/a581ca7784365bc8dfa2f038cc8c304b9422bde6)

  }
}
```

> ### Step 5B: Create a PayKit Customer Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 5B: Create a Pay Kit Customer Request
```

> To charge a one-time payment, your create request call might look like this (in the below example, `cashData` is the response object that is returned in the `didCommenceCheckout` parameter from step 5A):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To charge a one-time payment, your **Create Request** call might look like this (in the below example, `cashData` is the response object that is returned in the `didCommenceCheckout` parameter from step 5A):
```

``` swift
paykit.createCustomerRequest(
  params: CreateCustomerRequestParams(
    actions: [
      .oneTimePayment(
        scopeID: cashData.brandId,
        money: Money(
          amount: cashData.amount,
          currency: .USD
        )
      ),
    ],
    channel: .IN_APP,
    redirectURL: URL(string: cashData.redirectUri)!,
    referenceID: nil,
    metadata: nil
  )
)
```

Your Observer’s state will change to `.creatingCustomerRequest`, then `.readyToAuthorize` with the created `CustomerRequest` struct as an associated value.

## Step 6: Authorize the Customer Request

### Step 6A: Add an Authorize Request Event to Cash App Pay button

> Once the SDK is in the `.readyToAuthorize` state, you can store the associated `CustomerRequest` and display a Cash App Pay button. When the Customer taps the button, you can authorize the customer request. Documentation for a Cash App Pay button component can be found [here][cash-button]{:target='_blank'}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the SDK is in the `.readyToAuthorize` state, you can store the associated `CustomerRequest` and display a Cash App Pay button. When the Customer taps the button, you can authorize the customer request. See [CashAppPayButton][cash-button]{:target='_blank'} to to learn more about the Cash App Pay button component.
```

Reviewer: @ScottAntonacAP you can add the same info as in the android docs "Currently, the Button provided by the SDK is unmanaged. This means that it’s a stylized button which isn’t aware of SDK events out-of-the-box. It is the developer’s responsibility to call the above method when the button is tapped and also manage any disabled and loading states."

**Example**

``` swift
@objc func cashAppPayButtonTapped() {
  sdk.authorizeCustomerRequest(request)
}
```

> Your app will redirect to Cash App for authorization. When authorization is completed, your redirect URL will be called, the `RedirectNotification` will post, and the SDK will fetch your authorized request and return it to your Observer, as part of the change to the `.approved` state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your app will redirect to Cash App for authorization. When the authorization is completed, your redirect URL will be called and the `RedirectNotification` will post. Then, the SDK will fetch your authorized request and return it to your Observer, as part of the change to the `.approved` state.
```

### Step 6B: Validate the Cash App Pay Order

{: .alert }
This step must not be skipped

> Finally, the Cash App order must be validated. This looks something like the below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you must validate the Cash App order. This will look like the following example:
```

``` swift
Afterpay.validateCashAppOrder(jwt: cashData.jwt, customerId: customerId, grantId: grant.id) { result in
  switch result {
  case .success(let data):
    // TODO: handle successful validation (ie pass grant and token to backend and then redirect to receipt page)
  case .failed(let reason):
    // TODO: handle invalid Cash App Order (ie start payment flow again)
  }
}
```

## Step 7: Pass Grants to the Backend and Capture Payment

> The approved CustomerRequest will have Grants associated with it which can be used with Afterpay’s capture payment API. Pass the `grantId` along with the token to capture using a server-to-server request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The approved customer request will have grants associated with it which can be used with Afterpay’s Capture Payment API. Pass the `grantId` along with the token to capture using a server-to-server request.
```

---
layout: default
title: Cash App Pay
parent: Getting Started
nav_order: 4
---

# Cash App Pay
{: .d-inline-block .no_toc }
NEW (v5.3.0)
{: .label .label-green }

<details markdown="block">
  <summary>
    Table of contents
  </summary>
  {: .text-delta }
- TOC
{:toc}
</details>

{: .alert }
> Cash App Pay is currently available in the following region(s): US

> Cash App Pay support can be added using the your Afterpay merchant account. This requires a token to be generated by a server to server call to the Afterpay API create checkout endpoint with a paramater of `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App PayKit SDK.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cash App Pay support can be added using your Afterpay merchant account. This requires a token to be generated by a server-to-server call to the Afterpay API Create Checkout endpoint with a parameter of `isCashAppPay` set to `true`. This method requires importing and implementing the Cash App PayKit SDK.
```

The PayKitObserver protocol contains only one method:

``` swift
func stateDidChange(to state: CashAppPaySDKState) {
	// handle state changes
}
```

### States

Your implementation should switch on the `state` parameter and handle the appropriate state changes. Some of these possible states are for information only, but most drive the logic of your integration. The most critical states to handle are listed in the table below:

| State | Description |
|:------|:------------|
| `ReadyToAuthorize` | Show a Cash App Pay button in your UI and call `authorizeCustomerRequest()` when it is tapped |
| `Approved` | Grants are ready for your backend to use to create a payment |
| `Declined` | Customer has declined the Cash App Pay authorization and must start the flow over or choose a new payment method |

### Error States

| State | Description |
|:------|:------------|
| `.integrationError` | A fixable bug in your integration |
| `.apiError` | A degradation of Cash App Pay server APIs. Your app should temporarily hide Cash App Pay functionality |

> | `.integrationError` | A bug outside the normal flow. Report this bug (and what caused it) to Cash App Developer Support |

Reviewer 3: How can one distinguish between this `.integrationError` and the other `.integrationError`? Shouldn't this one have a different state code?

Author: Copy paste error. Thank you. Addressed in [06867b5](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-ios/pull/244/commits/06867b5a62ac7fc8895044044309f7a7894aa508)

When you’re ready to authorize a payment using Cash App Pay,

1. Instantiate the SDK with the Afterpay PayKit Client ID via `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`
2. The SDK defaults to point to the production endpoint; for development, set the endpoint to `.sandbox`
3. Add your observer to the PayKit SDK

{: .note }
> Ensure that the Afterpay SDK is configured per the [instructions][afterpay-configuration] before attempting to access `Afterpay.cashAppClientId`

For example, from your checkout view controller that implements the `PayKitObserver` protocol, you might instantiate the SDK to be:

``` swift
private let sandboxClientID = Afterpay.cashAppClientId
private lazy var sdk: PayKit = {
    let sdk = PayKit(clientID: sandboxClientID, endpoint: .sandbox)
    sdk.addObserver(self)
    return sdk
}()
```
## Step 5: Create a Customer Request

You can create a customer request as soon as you know the amount you’d like to charge or if you'd like to create an on-file payment request. You’re encouraged to create this request as soon as your checkout view controller loads, so that your Customer can authorize the request without delay.

### Step 5A: Sign the Order Token

> After retrieving the token from your server to server call, the order needs to be signed, so as to retrieve the JWT and associated data. This might look something like the below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After retrieving the token from your server-to-server call, the order needs to be signed, so as to retrieve the JWT and associated data. This might look something like the below:
```

``` swift

> Afterpay.signCashAppOrder(didCommenceCheckout: { completion in

Reviewer 2: Discussed on VC: 

This `signCashAppOrder` method actually takes the token retrieved from the server-to-server call and passes it to an Afterpay API to be signed. Thus it should be shaped a little differently, more like

```public func signCashAppOrderToken(
    _ token: Token, 
    completion: @escaping (_ result: CashAppSigningResult) -> Void
) { 
    // pass token to Afterpay API, use completion to pass back .success(let cashData) or .failed(let reason)
}
```

This will make the callsite much more readable and make this step 5A instruction make more sense to the integrator:

```
let token = retrieveTokenFromServerToServerCall()
Afterpay.signCashAppOrderToken(token) { result in 
      switch result {
  case .success(let cashData):
    // TODO: use `cashData` to create customer request (step 5B)
  case .failed(let reason):
    // TODO: handle failed signing
  }
  ```

Author: Addressed in [5be29d2](https://github.com/afterpay/sdk-ios/pull/244/commits/5be29d285ada7d5f2612714ea9ee49096e6e0cae). Contingent on approval of #245

**Example**

``` swift
@objc func cashAppPayButtonTapped() {
  sdk.authorizeCustomerRequest(request)
}
```

Your app will redirect to Cash App for authorization. When authorization is completed, your redirect URL will be called, the `RedirectNotification` will post, and the SDK will fetch your authorized request and return it to your Observer, as part of the change to the `.approved` state.

### Step 6B: Validate the Cash App Pay Order

{: .alert }
This step must not be skipped

Finally, the Cash App order must be validated. This looks something like the below:

``` swift
Afterpay.validateCashAppOrder(jwt: cashData.jwt, customerId: customerId, grantId: grant.id) { result in
  switch result {
  case .success(let data):
    // TODO: handle successful validation (ie pass grant and token to backend and then redirect to receipt page)
  case .failed(let reason):
    // TODO: handle invalid Cash App Order (ie start payment flow again)
  }
}
```

## Step 7: Pass Grants to the Backend and Capture Payment

> The approved CustomerRequest will have Grants associated with it which can be used with Afterpay’s capture payment API. Pass the `grantId` along with the token to capture using a server to server request.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The approved CustomerRequest will have Grants associated with it which can be used with Afterpay’s capture payment API. Pass the `grantId` along with the token to capture using a server-to-server request.
```
